RHIDP-1908: Documenting the telemetry feature in admin guide (#212)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: admin/assembly-rhdh-telemetry.adoc

[id='assembly-rhdh-telemetry_{context}']

= Telemetry data collection

You can use the telemetry data collection feature by configuring the `janus-idp

> -backstage-plugin-analytics-provider-segment` plugin. Based on the data collected, {company-name} analyzes your usage of the {product} application. This analysis helps in providing you support for upgrades, optimizing performance or configuration, minimizing service impacts, identifying and remediating threats, troubleshooting, improving the offerings and your experience, and responding to your issues. 

Author: In the dynamic plugins support matrix, the plugin is referred to as `@janus-idp/backstage-plugin-analytics-provider-segment`. I see your concern here. let's use the short name and provide some context about the plugin.

This feature collects the following data about your {product-very-short} usage:

* Events-related information, for example,  number of page visits, number of clicks on any links or buttons.
* IP address-related information. The IP addresses are anonymized and recorded as `0.0.0.0`.
* Username-related information. The usernames are recorded as an anonymized hash ID.   

> * User-related information, for example, locale, timezone, user agent including browser and OS details.

Reviewer: Maybe we can refer to this as "system related information" rather than user?

[id='assembly-rhdh-telemetry_{context}']

= Telemetry data collection

You can use the telemetry data collection feature by configuring the `analytics-provider-segment` plugin, which helps in sending analytics events to a specific Segment. For example, if there are number of users accessing your application, you can create multiple Segments based on location, purchasing tendency, or visiting pattern of your application users. So, a Segment denotes a classified set of your analytics data.

> Based on the data collected, {company-name} analyzes your usage of the {product} application. This analysis helps in providing you support for upgrades, optimizing performance or configuration, minimizing service impacts, identifying and remediating threats, troubleshooting, improving the offerings and your experience, and responding to your issues. 

Author: I understand that this is a sensitive feature and we cannot make false promises. I completely agree with you.

This feature collects the following data about your {product-very-short} usage:

* Events-related information, for example,  number of page visits, number of clicks on any links or buttons.
* System-related information, for example, locale, timezone, user agent including browser and OS details.
* Page-related information, for example, title, category, extension name, URL, path, referrer, and search parameters.

This feature also helps in anonymizing IP address and username-related information to maintain your privacy.

* The IP addresses are anonymized and recorded as `0.0.0.0`.

> * The usernames are recorded as an anonymized hash ID.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The usernames are recorded as an anonymized hash.   
```

> The usernames denote a unique random identifier that is used solely to identify the number of unique users of the {product-very-short} application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The username hash is a unique identifier that is used solely to identify the number of unique users of the {product-very-short} application.
```
hash is not random

> The anonymized IP addresses and usernames denote a unique random identifier that is used solely to identify the number of unique users of the {product-very-short} application.

Reviewer: I think it's just the usernames that are used to generate the unique identifier.  We can remove `anonymized IP addresses`

{company-name} analyzes the collected data to understand your interactions with the {product-very-short} application without disclosing your identity and compromising your privacy. {company-name} uses the collected data only for internal analysis and to improve your experience with {product}.

With {product-very-short}, you can customize the telemetry data collection feature and the telemetry Segment source configuration based on your needs.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> You can also use the telemetry data collection feature in an air-gapped environment in the same way as described in the following procedures.

Reviewer: Do you mean users can enable telemetry in an air-gapped environment or would they need to disable it?

Author: @kim-tsao, Users can perform any of the actions (enable, disable)based on their needs. The intent is to let the users know that the configuration procedures are same even if they have installed RHDH in an airgapped envornment. the procedures do not vary in any manner.

Tweaked the note in this manner:
You can also customize the telemetry data collection feature and the telemetry Segment source configuration in an air-gapped environment. For more information, see the following procedures.

> You can also use the telemetry data collection feature in an air-gapped environment in the same way as described in the following procedures.

Author: @kadel @kim-tsao, Should we close [this ticket](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-1909), wherein we had to capture the procedure to disable telemetry in an airgap scenario? Because it is impractical to use telemetry in air-gapped environments.

====

include::proc-enabling-telemetry.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::proc-customizing-telemetry-segment.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> include::proc-disabling-telemetry.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer 2: Telemetery will be enabled by default, I think that it makes more sense to have this listed before enabling telemetry section
